APT-C-36 has embedded a VBScript within a malicious Word document which is executed upon the document opening.
APT32 has used macros, COM scriptlets, and VBS scripts. 
APT33 has used VBScript to initiate the delivery of payloads.
APT37 executes shellcode and a VBA script to decode Base64 strings.
BackConfig has used VBS to install its downloader component and malicious documents with VBA macro code.
BRONZE BUTLER has used VBS and VBE scripts for execution.
Cobalt Group has sent Word OLE compound documents with malicious obfuscated VBA macros that will run upon user execution.
Cobalt Strike can use VBA to perform execution.
Comnie executes VBS scripts.
FIN4 has used VBA macros to display a dialog box and collect victim credentials.
FIN7 used VBS scripts to help perform tasks on the victim's machine.
Frankenstein has used Word documents that prompts the victim to enable macros and run a Visual Basic script.
Gamaredon Group has embedded malicious macros in document templates, which executed VBScript. Gamaredon Group has also delivered Microsoft Outlook VBA projects with embedded macros.
Goopy has the ability to use a Microsoft Outlook backdoor macro to communicate with its C2. 
Gorgon Group has used macros in Spearphishing Attachments as well as executed VBScripts on victim machines.
One version of Helminth consists of VBScript scripts.
Honeybee embeds a Visual Basic script within a malicious Word document as part of initial access; the script is executed when the Word document is opened.
IcedID has used obfuscated VBA string expressions.
Inception has used VBScript to execute malicious commands and payloads.
JCry has used VBS scripts. 
jRAT has been distributed as HTA files with VBScript. 
KeyBoy uses VBS scripts for installing files and performing execution.
Koadic performs most of its operations using Windows Script Host (VBScript) and runs arbitrary shellcode .
APT32 has used JavaScript for drive-by downloads and C2 communications.
Astaroth uses JavaScript to perform its core functionalities. 
Bundlore can execute JavaScript by injecting it into the victim's browser.
Cobalt Group has executed JavaScript scriptlets on the victim's machine.
FIN6 has used malicious JavaScript to steal payment card data from e-commerce sites.
FIN7 used JavaScript scripts to help perform tasks on the victim's machine.
GRIFFON is written in and executed as JavaScript/JScript. 
InvisiMole can use a JavaScript file as part of its execution chain.
jRAT has been distributed as HTA files with JScript. 
Leafminer infected victims using JavaScript code.
APT32 has lured targets to download a Cobalt Strike beacon by including a malicious link within spearphishing emails.
APT33 has lured users to click links to malicious HTML applications delivered via spearphishing emails.
APT39 has sent spearphishing emails in an attempt to lure users to click on a malicious link. 
BackConfig has compromised victims via links to URLs hosting malicious content.
BlackTech has used e-mails with malicious links to lure victims into installing malware. 
Cobalt Group has sent emails containing malicious links that require users to execute a file or macro to infect the victim machine.
Dragonfly 2.0 has used various forms of spearphishing in attempts to get users to open links.
Elderwood has leveraged multiple types of spearphishing in order to attempt to get a user to open links.
Emotet has relied upon users clicking on a malicious link delivered through spearphishing.
FIN4 has lured victims to click malicious links delivered via spearphishing emails (often sent from compromised accounts).
admin@338 has attempted to get victims to launch malicious Microsoft Word attachments delivered via spearphishing emails.
Agent Tesla has been executed through malicious e-mail attachments 
APT-C-36 has prompted victims to accept macros in order to execute the subsequent payload.
APT12 has attempted to get victims to open malicious Microsoft Word and PDF attachment sent via spearphishing.
APT19 attempted to get users to launch malicious attachments delivered via spearphishing emails.
APT28 attempted to get users to click on Microsoft Office attachments containing malicious macro scripts.
APT29 has used various forms of spearphishing attempting to get a user to open links or attachments, including, but not limited to, malicious Microsoft Word documents, .pdf, and .lnk files.  
APT30 has relied on users to execute malicious file attachments delivered via spearphishing emails.
APT32 has attempted to lure users to execute a malicious dropper delivered via a spearphishing attachment.
APT33 has used malicious e-mail attachments to lure victims into executing malware.
APT37 has sent spearphishing attachments attempting to get a user to open them.
APT39 has sent spearphishing emails in an attempt to lure users to click on a malicious attachment. 
BlackTech has used e-mails with malicious documents to lure victims into installing malware. 
BRONZE BUTLER has attempted to get users to launch malicious Microsoft Word attachments delivered via spearphishing emails.
Bundlore has attempted to get users to execute a malicious .app file that looks like a Flash Player update.
Cardinal RAT lures victims into executing malicious macros embedded within Microsoft Excel documents.
CARROTBALL has been executed through users being lured into opening malicious e-mail attachments.
Cobalt Group has sent emails containing malicious attachments that require users to execute a file or macro to infect the victim machine.
Dark Caracal makes their malware look like Flash Player, Office, or PDF documents in order to entice a user to click on it.
Darkhotel sent spearphishing emails with malicious attachments that required users to click on an image in the document to drop the malware to disk.
DarkHydrus has sent malware that required users to hit the enable button in Microsoft Excel to allow an .iqy file to be downloaded.
Dragonfly 2.0 has used various forms of spearphishing in attempts to get users to open attachments.
Elderwood has leveraged multiple types of spearphishing in order to attempt to get a user to open attachments.
Emotet has relied upon users clicking on a malicious attachment delivered through spearphishing.
FIN4 has lured victims to launch malicious attachments delivered via spearphishing emails (often sent from compromised accounts).
FIN6 has used malicious documents to lure victims into allowing execution of PowerShell scripts.
FIN7 lured victims to double-click on images in the attachments they sent which would then execute the hidden LNK file.
FIN8 has leveraged Spearphishing Attachments attempting to gain User Execution.
Frankenstein has used trojanized Microsoft Word documents sent via email, which prompted the victim to enable macros.
Gallmaker sent victims a lure document with a warning that asked victims to "enable content" for execution.
Gamaredon Group has attempted to get users to click on Office attachments with malicious macros embedded.
Gorgon Group attempted to get users to launch malicious Microsoft Office attachments delivered via spearphishing emails.
Hancitor has used malicious Microsoft Word documents, sent via email, which prompted the victim to enable macros.
IcedID has been executed through Word documents with malicious embedded macros.
Inception lured victims into clicking malicious files for machine reconnaissance and to execute malware.
InvisiMole can deliver trojanized versions of software and documents, relying on user execution.
JCry has achieved execution by luring users to click on a file that appeared to be an Adobe Flash Player update installer. 
Lazarus Group has attempted to get users to launch a malicious Microsoft Word attachment delivered via a spearphishing email.
Leviathan has sent spearphishing attachments attempting to get a user to click.
Lokibot has been executed through malicious documents contained in spearphishing e-mails.
Machete has has relied on users opening malicious attachments delivered through spearphishing to execute malware.
Magic Hound has lured victims into executing malicious files.
menuPass has attempted to get victims to open malicious files such as Windows Shortcuts (.lnk) and/or Microsoft Office documents, sent via email as part of spearphishing campaigns.
Metamorfo requires the user to double-click the executable to run the malicious HTA file. 
Mofang's malicious spearphishing attachments required a user to open the file after receiving.
Molerats has sent malicious files via email. 
MuddyWater has attempted to get users to enable macros and launch malicious Microsoft Word documents delivered via spearphishing emails.
Naikon has convinced victims to open malicious attachments to execute malware.
OilRig has delivered macro-enabled documents that required targets to click the "enable content" button to execute the payload on the system.
OSX/Shlayer relies on users mounting and executing a malicious DMG file.
Patchwork embedded a malicious macro in a Word document and lured the victim to click on an icon to execute the malware.
APT-C-36 has used a macro function to set scheduled tasks, disguised as those used by Google.
APT29 used named and hijacked scheduled tasks to establish persistence.
An APT3 downloader creates persistence by creating the following scheduled task: schtasks /create /tn "mysc" /tr C:\Users\Public\test.exe /sc ONLOGON /ru "System".
APT32 has used scheduled tasks to persist on victim systems.
APT33 has created a scheduled task to execute a .vbe file multiple times a day.
APT39 has created scheduled tasks for persistence. 
APT41 used a compromised account to create a scheduled task on a system.
Attor's installer plugin can schedule a new task that loads the dispatcher on boot/logon.
BackConfig has the ability to use scheduled tasks to repeatedly execute malicious payloads on a compromised host.
BADNEWS creates a scheduled task to establish by executing a malicious payload every subsequent minute.
Blue Mockingbird has used Windows Scheduled Tasks to establish persistence on local and remote hosts.
BRONZE BUTLER has used schtasks to register a scheduled task to execute malware during lateral movement.
Dragonfly 2.0 used scheduled tasks to automatically log out of created accounts every 8 hours as well as to execute malicious files.
Adversaries can instruct Duqu to spread laterally by copying itself to shares it has enumerated and for which it has obtained legitimate credentials (via keylogging or other means). The remote host is then infected by using the compromised credentials to schedule a task on remote machines that executes the malware.
Dyre has the ability to achieve persistence by adding a new task in the task scheduler to run every minute.
Emotet has maintained persistence through a scheduled task. 
Empire has modules to interact with the Windows task scheduler.
EvilBunny has executed commands via scheduled tasks.
FIN10 has established persistence by using S4U tasks as well as the Scheduled Task option in PowerShell Empire.
FIN6 has used scheduled tasks to establish persistence for various malware it uses, including downloaders known as HARDTACK and SHIPBREAD and FrameworkPOS.
FIN7 malware has created scheduled tasks to establish persistence.
FIN8 has used scheduled tasks to maintain RDP backdoors.
Frankenstein has established persistence through a scheduled task using the command:  /Create /F /SC DAILY /ST 09:00 /TN WinUpdate /TR , named "WinUpdate". 
Gamaredon Group has created a scheduled task to launch an executable every 10 minutes. 
Gazer can establish persistence by creating a scheduled task.
Goopy has the ability to maintain persistence by creating scheduled tasks set to run every hour. 
GravityRAT creates a scheduled task to ensure it is re-executed everyday.
GRIFFON has used sctasks for persistence. 
Helminth has used a scheduled task for persistence.
HotCroissant has attempted to install a scheduled task named "Java Maintenance64" on startup to establish persistence.
IcedID has created a scheduled task that executes every hour to establish persistence.
InvisiMole has used scheduled tasks named MSST and \Microsoft\Windows\Autochk\Scheduled to establish persistence.
ADVSTORESHELL achieves persistence by adding itself to the HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run Registry key.
Agent Tesla can add itself to the Registry as a startup program to establish persistence.
APT18 establishes persistence via the HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run key.
An APT19 HTTP malware variant establishes persistence by setting the Registry key HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\Windows Debug Tools-%LOCALAPPDATA%\.
APT29 added Registry Run keys to establish persistence.
APT3 places scripts in the startup folder for persistence.
APT32 established persistence using Registry Run keys, both to execute PowerShell and VBS scripts as well as to execute their backdoor directly.
APT33 has deployed a tool known as DarkComet to the Startup folder of a victim, and used Registry run keys to gain persistence.
APT37's has added persistence via the Registry key HKCU\Software\Microsoft\CurrentVersion\Run\.
APT39 has maintained persistence using the startup folder. 
APT41 created and modified startup files for persistence. APT41 added a registry key in HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Svchost to establish persistence for Cobalt Strike.
Aria-body has established persistence via the Startup folder or Run Registry key.
Astaroth creates a startup item for persistence. 
BabyShark has added a Registry key to ensure all future macros are enabled for Microsoft Word and Excel as well as for additional persistence.
Backdoor.Oldrea adds Registry Run keys to achieve persistence.
BACKSPACE achieves persistence by creating a shortcut to itself in the CSIDL_STARTUP directory.
BADNEWS installs a registry Run key to establish persistence.
BadPatch establishes a foothold by adding a link to the malware executable in the startup folder.
BBSRAT has been loaded through DLL side-loading of a legitimate Citrix executable that is set to persist through the Registry Run key location HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\ssonsvr.exe.
Bisonal adds itself to the Registry key HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\CurrentVersion\Run\ for persistence.
The BlackEnergy 3 variant drops its main DLL component and then creates a .lnk shortcut to that file in the startup folder.
Briba creates run key Registry entries pointing to malicious DLLs dropped to disk.
BRONZE BUTLER has used a batch script that adds a Registry Run key to establish malware persistence.
build_downer has the ability to add itself to the Registry Run key for persistence.
Carbanak stores a configuration files in the startup directory to automatically execute commands in order to persist across reboots.
Carberp has maintained persistence by placing itself inside the current user's startup folder.
Cardinal RAT establishes Persistence by setting the  HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows\Load Registry key to point to its executable.
ChChes establishes persistence by adding a Registry Run key.
Cobalt Group has used Registry Run keys for persistence. The group has also set a Startup path to launch the PowerShell shell command and download Cobalt Strike.
Cobian RAT creates an autostart Registry key to ensure persistence.
Comnie achieves persistence by adding a shortcut of itself to the startup path in the Registry.
CORESHELL has established persistence by creating autostart extensibility point (ASEP) Registry entries in the Run key and other Registry keys, as well as by creating shortcuts in the Internet Explorer Quick Start folder.
One persistence mechanism used by CozyCar is to set itself to be executed at system startup by adding a Registry value under one of the following Registry keys: HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\ HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\ HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer\Run HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer\Run
CrossRAT uses run keys for persistence on Windows
Dark Caracal's version of Bandook adds a registry key to HKEY_USERS\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run for persistence.
DarkComet adds several Registry entries to enable automatic execution at every system startup.
Darkhotel has been known to establish persistence by adding programs to the Run Registry key.
DownPaper uses PowerShell to add a Registry Run key in order to establish persistence.
Dragonfly 2.0 added the registry value ntdll to the Registry Run key to establish persistence.
Variants of Emissary have added Run Registry keys to establish persistence.
Emotet has been observed adding the downloaded payload to the HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run key to maintain persistence.
Empire can modify the registry run keys 
EvilGrab adds a Registry Run key for ctfmon.exe to establish persistence.
FatDuke has used HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\CurrentVersion\Run to establish persistence.
FELIXROOT adds a shortcut file to the startup folder for persistence.
FIN10 has established persistence by using the Registry option in PowerShell Empire to add a Run key.
FIN6 has used Registry Run keys to establish persistence for its downloader tools known as HARDTACK and SHIPBREAD.
FIN7 malware has created Registry Run and RunOnce keys to establish persistence, and has also added items to the Startup folder.
Final1stspy creates a Registry Run key to establish persistence.
FinFisher establishes persistence by creating the Registry key HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Run.
FLASHFLOOD achieves persistence by making an entry in the Registry's Run key.
Gamaredon Group tools have registered Run keys in the registry to give malicious VBS files persistence.
Gazer can establish persistence by creating a .lnk file in the Start menu.
gh0st RAT has added a Registry Run key to establish persistence.
Gold Dragon establishes persistence in the Startup folder.
Gorgon Group malware can create a .lnk file and add a Registry Run key to establish persistence.
GRIFFON has used a persistence module that stores the implant inside the Registry, which executes at logon.
Hancitor  has added Registry Run keys to establish persistence.
Helminth establishes persistence by creating a shortcut in the Start Menu folder.
Hi-Zor creates a Registry Run key to establish persistence.
Honeybee uses a batch file that configures the ComSysApp service to autostart in order to establish persistence.
HTTPBrowser has established persistence by setting the HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run key value for wdm to the path of the executable. It has also used the Registry entry HKEY_USERS\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run vpdn "%ALLUSERPROFILE%\%APPDATA%\vpdn\VPDN_LU.exe" to establish persistence.
IcedID has established persistence by creating a Registry run key.
InvisiMole can place a lnk file in the Startup Folder to achieve persistence.
Ixeshe can achieve persistence by adding itself to the HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run Registry key.
JCry has created payloads in the Startup directory to maintain persistence. 
JHUHUGIT has used a Registry Run key to establish persistence by executing JavaScript code within the rundll32.exe process.
Kasidet creates a Registry Run key to establish persistence.
Kazuar adds a sub-key under several Registry run keys.
Several Ke3chang backdoors achieved persistence by adding a Run key.
Kimsuky has placed scripts in the startup folder for persistence.
A version of KONNI drops a Windows shortcut into the Startup folder to establish persistence.
Lazarus Group malware attempts to maintain persistence by saving itself in the Start menu folder or by adding a Registry Run key.
Leviathan has used JavaScript to create a shortcut file in the Startup folder that points to its main backdoor.
Machete used the startup folder for persistence.
Magic Hound malware has used Registry Run keys to establish persistence.
Matroyshka can establish persistence by adding Registry Run keys.
Maze has created a file named "startup_vrun.bat" in the Startup folder of a virtual machine to establish persistence.
MCMD can use Registry Run Keys for persistence.
Metamorfo has written its executable path to a Registry Run key and used .LNK files in the startup folder to achieve persistence.
An APT28 loader Trojan adds the Registry key HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript to establish persistence.
Attor's dispatcher can establish persistence via adding a Registry key with a logon script HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Environment "UserInitMprLogonScript" .
Cobalt Group has added persistence by registering the file name for the next stage malware under HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript.
JHUHUGIT has registered a Windows shell script under the Registry key HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript to establish persistence.
Zebrocy performs persistence with a logon script via adding to the Registry key HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript.

InvisiMole can place a lnk file in the Startup Folder to achieve persistence.
Ixeshe can achieve persistence by adding itself to the HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run Registry key.
JCry has created payloads in the Startup directory to maintain persistence. 
JHUHUGIT has used a Registry Run key to establish persistence by executing JavaScript code within the rundll32.exe process.
Kasidet creates a Registry Run key to establish persistence.
Kazuar adds a sub-key under several Registry run keys.
Several Ke3chang backdoors achieved persistence by adding a Run key.
Kimsuky has placed scripts in the startup folder for persistence.
A version of KONNI drops a Windows shortcut into the Startup folder to establish persistence.
Lazarus Group malware attempts to maintain persistence by saving itself in the Start menu folder or by adding a Registry Run key.
Leviathan has used JavaScript to create a shortcut file in the Startup folder that points to its main backdoor.
Metamorfo has written its executable path to a Registry Run key and used .LNK files in the startup folder to achieve persistence.
Mivast creates the following Registry entry: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\Micromedia.
Molerats saved malicious files within the AppData and Startup folders to maintain persistence.
Mosquito establishes persistence under the Registry key HKCU\Software\Run auto_update.
MuddyWater has added Registry Run key KCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\SystemTextEncoding to establish persistence.
NanHaiShu modifies the %regrun% Registry to point itself to an autostart mechanism.
NanoCore creates a RunOnce key in the Registry to execute its VBS scripts each time the user logs on to the machine.
NavRAT creates a Registry key to ensure a file gets executed upon reboot in order to establish persistence.
The "SCOUT" variant of NETEAGLE achieves persistence by adding itself to the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run Registry key.
NETWIRE creates a Registry start-up entry to establish persistence.
njRAT has added persistence via the Registry key HKCU\Software\Microsoft\CurrentVersion\Run\ and dropped a shortcut in %STARTUP%.
NOKKI has established persistence by writing the payload to the Registry key HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run.
Okrum establishes persistence by creating a .lnk shortcut to itself in the Startup folder. 
Patchwork has added the path of its second-stage malware to the startup folder to achieve persistence. One of its file stealers has also persisted by adding a Registry Run key.
Pisloader establishes persistence via a Registry Run key.
PLAINTEE gains persistence by adding the Registry key HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce.
POWERSOURCE achieves persistence by setting a Registry Run key, with the path depending on whether the victim account has user or administrator access.
PowerSploit's New-UserPersistenceOption Persistence argument can be used to establish via the HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run Registry key.
Pupy adds itself to the startup folder or adds itself to the Registry key SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run for persistence.
A dropper used by Putter Panda installs itself into the ASEP Registry key HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run with a value named McUpdate.
Reaver creates a shortcut file and saves it in a Startup folder to establish persistence.
RedLeaves attempts to add a shortcut file in the Startup folder to achieve persistence. If this fails, it attempts to add Registry Run keys.
Remcos can add itself to the Registry key HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run for persistence.
Remexi utilizes Run Registry keys in the HKLM hive as a persistence mechanism.
Revenge RAT creates a Registry key at HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\Shell to survive a system reboot.
Rifdoor has created a new registry entry at HKEY_CURRENT_USERS\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\Graphics with a value of C:\ProgramData\Initech\Initech.exe /run.
Rocke's miner has created UPX-packed files in the Windows Start Menu Folder. 
RogueRobin created a shortcut in the Windows startup folder to launch a PowerShell script each time the user logs in to establish persistence.
Rover persists by creating a Registry entry in HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\.
RTM tries to add a Registry Run key under the name "Windows Update" to establish persistence.
RTM has used Registry run keys to establish persistence for the RTM Trojan and other tools, such as a modified version of TeamViewer remote desktop software.
RunningRAT adds itself to the Registry key Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run to establish persistence upon reboot.
Ryuk has used the Windows command line to create a Registry entry under HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run to establish persistence.
SeaDuke is capable of persisting via the Registry Run key or a .lnk file stored in the Startup directory.
Seasalt creates a Registry entry to ensure infection after reboot under HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\currentVersion\Run.
ServHelper may attempt to establish persistence via the HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\ run key.
Sharpshooter's first-stage downloader installed Rising Sun to the startup folder %Startup%\mssync.exe. 
ShimRat has installed a registry based start-up key HKCU\Software\microsoft\windows\CurrentVersion\Run to maintain persistence should other methods fail.
SHIPSHAPE achieves persistence by creating a shortcut in the Startup folder.
Smoke Loader adds a Registry Run key for persistence and adds a script in the Startup folder to deploy the payload.
SNUGRIDE establishes persistence through a Registry Run key.
SPACESHIP achieves persistence by creating a shortcut in the current user's Startup folder.
To establish persistence, SslMM identifies the Start Menu Startup directory and drops a link to its own executable disguised as an "Office Start," "Yahoo Talk," "MSN Gaming Z0ne," or "MSN Talk" shortcut.HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run to establish persistence. Additionally, a Turla custom executable containing Metasploit shellcode is saved to the Startup folder to gain persistence.
TURNEDUP is capable of writing to a Registry Run key to establish.
Ursnif has used Registry Run keys to establish automatic execution at system startup.
USBStealer registers itself under a Registry Run key with the name "USB Disk Security."
Vasport copies itself to disk and creates an associated run key Registry entry to establish.
Xbash can create a Startup item for persistence if it determines it is on a Windows system.
Zebrocy creates an entry in a Registry Run key for the malware to execute on startup.
Zeus Panda adds persistence by creating Registry Run keys.
Flame can use Windows Authentication Packages for persistence.

Reg may be used to interact with and modify the Windows Registry of a local or remote system at the command-line interface.
RegDuke can store its encryption key in the Registry.
Regin appears to have functionality to modify remote Registry information.
Remcos has full control of the Registry, including the ability to modify it.
REvil can save encryption parameters and system information to the Registry.
Rover has functionality to remove Registry Run key persistence as a cleanup procedure.
RTM can delete all Registry entries created during its execution.
Once Shamoon has access to a network share, it enables the RemoteRegistry service on the target system. It will then connect to the system with RegConnectRegistryW and modify the Registry to disable UAC remote restrictions by setting 
SynAck can manipulate Registry keys.
Teardrop modified the Registry to create a Windows service for itself on a compromised host.
APT32 has used mshta.exe for code execution.
FIN7 has used mshta.exe to execute VBScript to execute malicious code on victim systems.
Inception has used malicious HTA files to drop and execute malware.
Kimsuky has used mshta to run malicious scripts on the system.
Koadic can use MSHTA to serve additional payloads.
Lazarus Group has used mshta.exe to run malicious scripts and download programs.
Metamorfo has used mshta.exe to execute a HTA payload. 
Blue Mockingbird has executed custom-compiled XMRIG miner DLLs using regsvr32.exe. 
Cobalt Group has used regsvr32.exe to execute scripts.
Deep Panda has used regsvr32.exe to execute a server variant of Derusbi in victim networks.
Derusbi variants have been seen that use Registry persistence to proxy execution through regsvr32.exe.
Hi-Zor executes using regsvr32.exe called from the Registry Run Keys / Startup Folder persistence mechanism.
Inception has ensured persistence at system boot by setting the value regsvr32 %path%\ctfmonrn.dll /s.
Koadic can use Regsvr32 to execute additional payloads.
Leviathan has used regsvr32 for execution.
More_eggs has used regsvr32.exe to execute the malicious DLL.
Some Orz versions have an embedded DLL known as MockDll that uses Process Hollowing and regsvr32 to execute another payload.
Ragnar Locker has used regsvr32.exe to execute components of VirtualBox.
RogueRobin uses regsvr32.exe to run a .sct file for execution.
Bisonal uses rundll32.exe to execute as part of the Registry Run key it adds: HKEY_CURRENT_USER \Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\"vert" = "rundll32.exe c:\windows\temp\pvcu.dll , Qszdez".
Mosquito's launcher uses rundll32.exe in a Registry Key value to start the main backdoor capability.
MuddyWater has used malware that leveraged rundll32.exe in a Registry Run key to execute a .dll.
Cobalt Group used a JavaScript backdoor that is capable of collecting a list of the security solutions installed on the victim's machine.
Comnie attempts to detect several anti-virus products.
CookieMiner has checked for the presence of "Little Snitch", macOS network monitoring and application firewall software, stopping and exiting if it is found.
The main CozyCar dropper checks whether the victim has an anti-virus product installed. If the installed product is on a predetermined list, the dropper will exit.
Frankenstein has used WMI queries to detect if virtualization environments or analysis tools were running on the system.
Gold Dragon checks for anti-malware products and processes.
InvisiMole can check for the presence of network sniffers, AV, and BitDefender firewall.
JPIN checks for the presence of certain security-related processes and deletes its installer/uninstaller component if it identifies any of them.machine using WMI.
Skidmap has the ability to check if /usr/sbin/setenforce exists. This file controls what mode SELinux is in. 
StrongPity can identify if ESET or BitDefender antivirus are installed before dropping its payload.
Sunburst checked for a variety of antivirus/endpoint detection agents prior to execution.
T9000 performs checks for various antivirus and security products during installation.
TajMahal has the ability to identify which anti-virus products, firewalls, and anti-spyware products are in use.
Tasklist can be used to enumerate security software currently running on a system by process name of known products.including Kaspersky, Quick Heal, AVG, BitDefender, Avira, Sophos, Avast!, and ESET.
3PARA RAT has a command to retrieve metadata for files on disk as well as a command to list the current working directory.
APT41 has executed file /bin/pwd on exploited victims, perhaps to return architecture related information.
Aria-body has the ability to gather metadata from a file and to search for file and directory names.
Attor has a plugin that enumerates files with specific extensions on all hard disk drives and stores file information in encrypted log files.
AuditCred can search through folders and files on the system.
AutoIt backdoor is capable of identifying documents on the victim with the following extensions: .doc; .pdf, .csv, .ppt, .docx, .pst, .xls, .xlsx, .pptx, and .jpeg.
Avenger has the ability to browse files in directories such as Program Files and the Desktop. 
Azorult can recursively search for files in folders and collects files from the desktop with certain extensions.
Backdoor.Oldrea collects information about available drives, default browser, desktop file list, My Documents, Internet history, program files, and root of available drives. It also searches for ICS-related software files.
BlackEnergy gathers a list of installed apps from the uninstall program Registry. It also gathers registered mail, browser, and instant messaging clients from the Registry. BlackEnergy has searched for given file types.
BRONZE BUTLER has collected a list of files from the victim and uploaded it to its C2 server, and then created a new list of specific files to steal.
Cannon can obtain victim drive information as well as a list of folders in C:\Program Files.
Cardinal RAT checks its current working directory upon execution and also contains watchdog functionality that ensures its executable is located in the correct path (else it will rewrite the payload).
ChChes collects the victim's %TEMP% directory path and version of Internet Explorer.
China Chopper's server component can list directory contents.
An older version of CHOPSTICK has a module that monitors all mounted volumes for files with the extensions .doc, .docx, .pgp, .gpg, .m2f, or .m2o.
cmd can be used to find files and directories with native functionality such as dir commands.
CookieMiner has looked for files in the user's home directory with "wallet" in their name using find.
Dust Storm has used Android backdoors capable of enumerating specific files on the infected devices.
DustySky scans the victim for files that contain certain keywords and document types including PDF, DOC, DOCX, XLS, and XLSX, from a list that is obtained from the C2 as a text file. It can also identify logical drives for the infected machine.
Gamaredon Group macros can scan for Microsoft Word and Excel files to inject with additional malicious macros. Gamaredon Group has also used its backdoors to automatically list interesting files (such as Office documents) found on a system. 
GeminiDuke collects information from the victim, including installed drivers, programs previously executed by users, programs and services configured to automatically run at startup, files and folders present in any user's home folder, files and folders present in any user's My Documents, programs installed to the Program Files folder, and recently accessed files, folders, and programs.
GoldenSpy has included a program "ExeProtector", which monitors for the existence of GoldenSpy on the infected system and redownloads if necessary. 
GravityRAT collects the volumes mapped on the system, and also steals files with the following extensions: .docx, .doc, .pptx, .ppt, .xlsx, .xls, .rtf, and .pdf.
HOPLIGHT has been observed enumerating system drives and partitions. 
HotCroissant has the ability to retrieve a list of files in a given directory as well as drives and drive types.
HTTPBrowser is capable of listing files, folders, and drives on a victim.
Hydraq creates a backdoor through which remote attackers can check for the existence of files, including its own components, as well as retrieve a list of logical drives.
Imminent Monitor has a dynamic debugging feature to check whether it is located in the %TEMP% directory, otherwise it copies itself there.
Inception used a file listing plugin to collect information about file and directories both on local and remote drives.
A version of KONNI searches for filenames created with a previous version of the malware, suggesting different versions targeted the same victims and the versions may work together.
Kwampirs collects a list of files and directories in C:\ with the command dir /s /a c:\ >> "C:\windows\TEMPRANDOM].tmp".
Several Lazarus Group malware samples use a common function to identify target files by their extension. Lazarus Group malware families can also enumerate files and directories, including a Destover-like variant that lists files and gathers information for all drives.
Leafminer used a tool called MailSniper to search for files on the desktop and another utility called Sobolsoft to extract attachments from EML files.
Linfo creates a backdoor through which remote attackers can list contents of drives and search for files.
Machete produces file listings in order to search for files to be exfiltrated. 
Magic Hound malware can list a victim's logical drives and the type, as well the total/free space of the fixed devices. Other malware can list a directory's contents.
MESSAGETAP checks for the existence of two configuration files (keyword_parm.txt and parm.txt) and attempts to read the files every 30 seconds.
Metamorfo has searched the Program Files directories for specific folders and has searched for strings related to its mutexes. 
Micropsia can perform a recursive directory listing for all volume drives available on the victim's machine and can also fetch specific files by their paths.
MiniDuke can enumerate local drives.
Misdat is capable of running commands to obtain a list of files and directories, as well as enumerating logical drives.
MobileOrder has a command to upload to its C2 server information about files on the victim mobile device, including SD card size, installed app list, SMS content, contacts, and calling history.
MoonWind has a command to return a directory listing for a specified directory.
MuddyWater has used malware that checked if the ProgramData folder had folders or files with the keywords "Kasper," "Panda," or "ESET."
NDiskMonitor can obtain a list of all files and directories as well as logical drives.
NETEAGLE allows adversaries to enumerate and modify the infected host's file system. It supports searching for directories, creating directories, listing directory contents, reading and writing to files, retrieving file attributes, and retrieving volume information.
A Patchwork payload has searched all fixed drives on the victim for files matching a specified list of extensions.
PinchDuke searches for files created within a certain timeframe and whose file extension matches a predefined list.
Pisloader has commands to list drives on the victim machine and to list file information for a given directory.
PoshC2 can enumerate files on the local file system and includes a module for enumerating recently accessed files.
PowerDuke has commands to get the current directory name as well as the size of a file. It also has commands to obtain information about logical drives, drive type, and free space.
POWRUNER may enumerate user directories on a victim.
A module in Prikormka collects information about the paths, size, and creation time of files with specific file extensions, but not the actual content of the file.
Psylo has commands to enumerate all storage devices and to find all files that start with a particular string.
Pteranodon identifies files matching certain file extension and copies them to subdirectories it created.
Remsec is capable of listing contents of folders on the victim. Remsec also searches for custom network encryption software on victims.
REvil has the ability to identify specific files and directories that are not to be encrypted.
Rising Sun can enumerate information about files from the infected system, including file size, attributes, creation time, last access time, and write time. Rising Sun can enumerate the compilation timestamp of Windows executable files. 
ROKRAT has the ability to gather a list of files and directories on the infected system.
Rover automatically searches for files on local drives based on a predefined list of file extensions.
RTM can check for specific files and directories associated with virtualization and malware analysis.
Ryuk has called GetLogicalDrives to emumerate all mounted drives, and GetDriveTypeW to determine the drive type.
SDBot has the ability to get directory listings or drive information on a compromised host.
Skidmap has checked for the existence of specific files including /usr/sbin/setenforce and  /etc/selinux/config. It also has the ability to monitor the cryptocurrency miner file and process. 
UNC2452 obtained information about the configured Exchange virtual directory using Get-WebServicesVirtualDirectory.
WannaCry searches for variety of user files by file extension before encrypting them using RSA and AES, including Office, PDF, image, audio, video, source code, archive/compression format, and key and certificate files.
WindTail has the ability to enumerate the users home directory and the path to its own application bundle.
4H RAT has the capability to obtain a listing of running processes (including loaded modules).
ADVSTORESHELL can list running processes.
Agent Tesla can list the current running processes on the system.
APT1 gathered a list of running processes on the system using tasklist /v.
An APT28 loader Trojan will enumerate the victim's processes searching for explorer.exe if its 
BISCUIT has a command to enumerate running processes and identify their owners.
BLACKCOFFEE has the capability to discover processes.
BlackEnergy has gathered a process list by using Tasklist.exe.
Bonadan can use the ps command to discover other cryptocurrency miners active on the system.
FinFisher checks its parent process for indications that it is running in a sandbox setup.
FrameworkPOS can enumerate and exclude selected processes on a compromised host to speed execution of memory scraping.
Goopy has checked for the Google Updater process to ensure Goopy was loaded properly.
GravityRAT lists the running processes on the system.
HALFBAKED can obtain information about running processes on the victim.
Helminth has used Tasklist to get information on processes.
Honeybee gathers a list of processes using the tasklist command and then is sent back to the control server.
HotCroissant has the ability to list running processes on the infected host.
Hydraq creates a backdoor through which remote attackers can monitor processes.
iKitten lists the current processes running.
Imminent Monitor has a "Process Watcher" feature to monitor processes in case the client ever crashes or gets closed.
Inception has used a reconnaissance module to identify active processes and other associated loaded modules.
After compromising a victim, Poseidon Group lists all running processes.
PowerDuke has a command to list the victim's processes.
PowerShower has the ability to deploy a reconnaissance module to retrieve a list of the active processes.
StrongPity can determine if a user is logged in by checking to see if explorer.exe is running.
Sunburst collected a list of process names that were hashed using a FNV-1a + XOR algorithm to check against similarly-hashed hardcoded blocklists.
Sunspot monitored running processes for instances of MsBuild.exe by hashing the name of each running process and comparing it to the corresponding value 0x53D525. It also extracted command-line arguments and individual arguments from the running MsBuild.exe process to identify the directory path of the Orion software Visual Studio solution.
Sykipot may gather a list of running processes by running tasklist /v.
SynAck enumerates all running processes.
SYSCON has the ability to use Tasklist to list running processes.
TajMahal has the ability to identify running processes and associated plugins on an infected host.
Tasklist can be used to discover processes running on a system.
Trojan.Karagany can use Tasklist to collect a list of running tasks.
Tropic Trooper is capable of enumerating the running processes on the system using pslist.
TSCookie has the ability to list processes on the infected host.
Turla surveys a system upon check-in to discover running processes using the tasklist /v command. Turla RPC backdoors have also enumerated processes associated with specific open ports or named pipes.
UBoatRAT can list running processes on the system.
UNC2452 used multiple command-line utilities to enumerate running processes.
Ursnif has gathered information about running processes.
USBferry can use tasklist to gather information about the process running on the infected system. 
Valak has the ability to enumerate running processes on a compromised host.
VERMIN can get a list of the processes and running tasks on the system.
ADVSTORESHELL can enumerate registry keys.
APT32's backdoor can query the Windows Registry to gather system information. 
Attor has opened the registry and performed query searches.
Azorult can check for installed software on the system under the Registry key Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall.
BabyShark has executed the reg query command for HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Terminal Server Client\Default. 
CHOPSTICK provides access to the Windows Registry, which can be used to gather information.
ComRAT can check the default browser by querying HKCR\http\shell\open\command.
Denis queries the Registry for keys and values.
Derusbi is capable of enumerating Registry keys and values.
DownPaper searches and reads the value of the Windows Update Registry Run key.
Dragonfly 2.0 queried the Registry to identify victim information.
Epic uses the rem reg query command to obtain values from Registry keys.
FatDuke can get user agent strings for the default browser from HKCU\Software\Classes\http\shell\open\command.
FELIXROOT queries the Registry for specific keys for potential privilege escalation and proxy information. FELIXROOT has also used WMI to query the Windows Registry.
FinFisher queries Registry values as part of its anti-sandbox checks.
gh0st RAT has checked for the existence of a Service key to determine if it has already been installed on the system.
Hydraq creates a backdoor through which remote attackers can retrieve system information, such as CPU speed, from Registry keys.
InvisiMole can enumerate Registry values, keys, and data.
JPIN can enumerate Registry keys.
Lazarus Group malware IndiaIndia checks Registry keys within HKCU and HKLM to determine if certain applications are present, including SecureCRT, Terminal Services, RealVNC, TightVNC, UltraVNC, Radmin, mRemote, TeamViewer, FileZilla, pcAnyware, and Remote Desktop. Another Lazarus Group malware sample checks for the presence of the following Registry key:HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Bitcoin\Bitcoin-Qt.
njRAT can read specific registry values.
OilRig has used reg query "HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Terminal Server Client\Default" on a victim to query the Registry.
OSInfo queries the registry to look for information about Terminal Services.
Pillowmint has used shellcode which reads code stored in the registry keys \REGISTRY\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\DRM using the native Windows API as well as read HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip\Parameters\Interfaces as part of its C2. 
Attor can detect whether it is executed in some virtualized or emulated environment by searching for specific artifacts, such as communication with I/O ports and using VM-specific instructions.
BadPatch attempts to detect if it is being run in a Virtual Machine (VM) using a WMI query for disk drive name, BIOS, and motherboard information. 
Denis ran multiple system checks, looking for processor and register characteristics, to evade emulation and analysis.
Dyre can detect sandbox analysis environments by inspecting the process list and Registry.
EvilBunny for a number of specific processes and the length of its own name to identify if the malware is in a sandbox environment. 
FinFisher obtains the hardware device list and checks if the MD5 of the vendor ID is equal to a predefined list in order to check for sandbox/virtualized environments.
Frankenstein has used WMI queries to check if various security applications were running, including VMWare and Virtualbox.
GravityRAT uses WMI to check the BIOS and manufacturer information for strings like "VMWare", "Virtual", and "XEN" and another WMI request to get the current temperature of the hardware to determine if it's a virtual machine environment. 
InvisiMole can check for artifacts of VirtualBox, Virtual PC and VMware environment, and terminate itself if they are detected.
APT1 has used RAR to compress files before moving them outside of the victim network.
APT3 has used tools to compress data before exfilling it.
APT33 has used WinRAR to compress data prior to exfil. 
APT39 has used WinRAR and 7-Zip to compress an archive stolen data. 
APT41 created a RAR archive of targeted files for exfiltration.
BRONZE BUTLER has compressed data into password-protected RAR archives prior to exfiltration.
Calisto uses the zip -r command to compress the data collected on the local system.
Chimera has used modified RAR software to archive data with a password.
CopyKittens uses ZPP, a .NET console program, to compress files with ZIP.
CORALDECK has created password-protected RAR, WinImage, and zip archives to be exfiltrated.
Daserf hides collected data in password-protected .rar archives.
DustySky can compress files via RAR while staging data to be exfiltrated.
InvisiMole uses WinRAR to compress data that is intended to be exfiltrated.
Ke3chang is known to use RAR with passwords to encrypt data prior to exfiltration.
APT37 has used an audio capturing utility known as SOUNDWAVE that captures microphone input.
Attor's has a plugin that is capable of recording audio using available input sound devices.
Bandook has modules that are capable of capturing audio.
Cadelspy has the ability to record audio from the compromised host.
Derusbi is capable of performing audio captures.
Attor has automatically collected data about the compromised system.
BADNEWS monitors USB devices and copies files with certain extensions toa predefined directory.
Bankshot recursively generates a list of files within a directory and sends them back to the control server.
Comnie executes a batch script to store discovery information in %TEMP%\info.dat and then uploads the temporarily file to the remote C2 server.
FIN5 scans processes on all victim systems in the environment and uses automated scripts to pull back the results.
FIN6 has used a script to iterate through a list of compromised PoS systems, copy and remove data to a log file, and to bind to events from the submit payment button.
Frankenstein has enumerated hosts via Empire, gathering the username, domain name, machine name, and other system information.
Gamaredon Group has deployed scripts on compromised systems that automatically scan for interesting documents.
A Helminth VBScript receives a batch script to execute a set of commands in a command prompt.
InvisiMole can sort and collect specific documents as well as generate a list of all files on a newly inserted drive and store them in an encrypted file.
LightNeuron can be configured to automatically collect files under a specified directory.
MESSAGETAP checks two files, keyword_parm.txt and parm.txt, for instructions on how to target and save data parsed and extracted from SMS message data from the network traffic. If an SMS message contained either a phone number, IMSI number, or keyword that matched the predefined list, it is saved to a CSV file for later theft by the threat actor.
Metamorfo has automatically collected mouse clicks, continuous screenshots on the machine, and set timers to collect the contents of the clipboard and website browsing. 
Micropsia executes an RAR tool to recursively archive files based on a predefined list of file extensions (.xls, .xlsx, .csv, .odt, .doc, .docx, .ppt, .pptx, .pdf, .mdb, .accdb, .accde, *.txt).
OilRig has used automated collection.
Patchwork developed a file stealer to search C:\ and collect files with certain extensions. Patchwork also executed a script to enumerate all drives, store them as a list, and upload generated files to the C2 server.
Dyre has the ability to send information staged on a compromised host externally to C2.
Emotet has been seen exfiltrating system information stored within cookies sent within an HTTP GET request back to its C2 servers. 
Empire can send data gathered from a target through the command and control channel.
Frankenstein has collected information via Empire, which is automatically sent the data back to the adversary's C2.
A Gamaredon Group file stealer can transfer collected files to a hardcoded C2 server.
GoldenSpy has exfiltrated host environment information to an external C2 domain via port 9006. 
Goopy has the ability to exfiltrate data over the Microsoft Outlook C2 channel.
HAWKBALL has sent system information and files over the C2 channel.
HOPLIGHT has used its C2 channel to exfiltrate data. 
HotCroissant has the ability to download files from the infected host to the command and control (C2) server.
Imminent Monitor has uploaded a file containing debugger logs, network information and system information to the C2.
Ke3chang transferred compressed and encrypted RAR files containing exfiltration through the established backdoor command and control channel during operations.
Kessel has exfiltrated information gathered from the infected system to the C2 server.
Kimsuky has exfiltrated data over its email C2 channel.
Lazarus Group malware IndiaIndia saves information gathered about the victim to a file that is uploaded to one of its 10 C2 servers. Another Lazarus Group malware sample also performs exfiltration over the C2 channel.

